readme.md, before:

# Explorer ![Tests and Build](https://github.com/threefoldtech/tfexplorer/workflows/Tests%20and%20Build/badge.svg)

The explorer is the component that is responsible to host all the public information about the nodes running 0-OS, the farms, the users identity and the capacity reservations.

The explorer exposes both a web UI and a REST API.

- The web UI allows users to discover all the nodes and farms in the grid.
- The API is used by nodes and users.

## Prerequisites

Following commands can be passed to the explorer:

| Command | Description
| --- | --- 
| `-listen` | listen address, default :8080
| `-dbConf` | connection string to mongo database, default mongodb://localhost:27017
| `-name` | database name, default explorer
| `-seed` | Seed of a valid Stellar address that has balance to support running the explorer
| `-network` | Stellar network, default testnet. Values can be (production, testnet)
| `-flush-escrows` | Remove the currently known escrow accounts and associated addresses in the db, then exit
| `-backupsigners` | Repeatable flag, expects a valid Stellar address. If 3 are provided, multisig on the escrow accounts will be enabled. This is needed if one wishes to recover funds on the escrow accounts.
| `-foundation-address` | Sets the "foundation address", this address will receive the payout of a reservation that is destined for the foundation, if any. If not set, the public address of the seed will be used.
| `-threebot-connect` | URL of the 3bot connect API users endpoints. If specified, when creating a new user in the phonebook, the explorer will ensure there is no conflicting record in 3bot connect DB before accepting the new user. URL for production is `https://login.threefold.me/api/users/`

> If a seed is passed to the explorer, payments for reservation will be enabled.

> To recover funds for an escrow account, check following docs: [tools/stellar/readme.md](tools/stellar/readme.md)

## reservation payment

When a reservation is created on the explorer, the client also needs to specify
a `currencies` field. This field contains the currency codes of all the currencies
the client is willing to use to pay for the reservation. The explorer will filter
out currencies which are not accepted based on the reservation being destined for
paid nodes or free to use nodes. In case of the former, only `FreeTFT` is currently
accepted. In case of the latter, anything but `FreeTFT` is accepted. For all currencies
which are acceptable for the reservation, the escrow then checks if all farms support
this currency. When a match is found, this currency, is set as currency to pay
the reservation with. At all times **only** 1 currency will be used for a single reservation.
The chosen currency is eventually communicated back to the client at the end of the
reservation create flow, in the `asset` field, in the form `<CODE>:<ISSUER>`. If there is no match for any
currency, then there will be no escrow setup, and the reservation will not be completed.

## currency management

The explorer escrow is able to handle multiple different currencies at once. Which exact
currencies it accepts, can be found in [pkg/stellar/asset.go](pkg/stellar/asset.go).
In order to support a new currency in the wallet, it suffices to add the asset here,
and load it in either the mainnet or testnet asset map. The eventual payouts in
the event of a successful reservation are based on a payout distribution, which
is linked to a specific asset, and can be found in [pkg/escrow/payout_distribution.go](pkg/escrow/payout_distribution.go).

## managing encrypted seeds for escrow accounts

The seeds of the escrow accounts are encrypted with a key based on the seed used
to start the explorer. This means that changing this seed will cause decryption
of these seeds, and thus their usage by the explorer, to fail. If for any reason
the seed used to start the explorer changes, the operator will need to clear existing
escrow accounts and their associated seeds. To this end, the explorer can be restarted
with the `-flush-escrows` flag. When this flag is passed, confirmation will be asked
on the command line if a user really wants to remove this data from the db. If the
operator changes his/her mind, the explorer will exit, and needs to be restarted
without this flag.

### disposing of encrypted seeds

It is possible, that the addresses used by an escrow are currently active, i.e.
a user has created a reservation and is in the process of paying for it. Although
it is technically possible to swap the addresses in the escrow, the user will still
try to pay to the old address, so this case can't really be handled. In order to not
lose funds however, it is encouraged to back up the accounts before they are removed.
If the explorer is started with the multisig feature enabled by providing sufficient
backup signers, the funds (if any) on the escrow address can still be recovered, and
returned to their rightfull owners, by creating multisigs with the backup signers
for the addresses. Note that the public addresses are not encrypted, as such, even
if the seed used to start the explorer is lost completely, the escrow funds can still
be recovered

Commit message:

document pprof flag in the readme

readme.md, after:

# Explorer

![Tests and Build](https://github.com/threefoldtech/tfexplorer/workflows/Tests%20and%20Build/badge.svg)

The explorer is the component that is responsible to host all the public information about the nodes running 0-OS, the farms, the users identity and the capacity reservations.

The explorer exposes both a web UI and a REST API.

* The web UI allows users to discover all the nodes and farms in the grid.
* The API is used by nodes and users.

## Prerequisites

Following commands can be passed to the explorer:

| Command | Description
| --- | ---
| `-listen` | listen address, default :8080
| `-dbConf` | connection string to mongo database, default mongodb://localhost:27017
| `-name` | database name, default explorer
| `-seed` | Seed of a valid Stellar address that has balance to support running the explorer
| `-network` | Stellar network, default testnet. Values can be (production, testnet)
| `-flush-escrows` | Remove the currently known escrow accounts and associated addresses in the db, then exit
| `-backupsigners` | Repeatable flag, expects a valid Stellar address. If 3 are provided, multisig on the escrow accounts will be enabled. This is needed if one wishes to recover funds on the escrow accounts.
| `-foundation-address` | Sets the "foundation address", this address will receive the payout of a reservation that is destined for the foundation, if any. If not set, the public address of the seed will be used.
| `-threebot-connect` | URL of the 3bot connect API users endpoints. If specified, when creating a new user in the phonebook, the explorer will ensure there is no conflicting record in 3bot connect DB before accepting the new user. URL for production is `https://login.threefold.me/api/users/`
| `pprof` | Enable the debug pprof tool and serve them at `/debug/pprof` .

> If a seed is passed to the explorer, payments for reservation will be enabled.

> To recover funds for an escrow account, check following docs: [tools/stellar/readme.md](tools/stellar/readme.md)

## reservation payment

When a reservation is created on the explorer, the client also needs to specify
a `currencies` field. This field contains the currency codes of all the currencies
the client is willing to use to pay for the reservation. The explorer will filter
out currencies which are not accepted based on the reservation being destined for
paid nodes or free to use nodes. In case of the former, only `FreeTFT` is currently
accepted. In case of the latter, anything but `FreeTFT` is accepted. For all currencies
which are acceptable for the reservation, the escrow then checks if all farms support
this currency. When a match is found, this currency, is set as currency to pay
the reservation with. At all times **only** 1 currency will be used for a single reservation.
The chosen currency is eventually communicated back to the client at the end of the
reservation create flow, in the `asset` field, in the form `<CODE>:<ISSUER>` . If there is no match for any
currency, then there will be no escrow setup, and the reservation will not be completed.

## currency management

The explorer escrow is able to handle multiple different currencies at once. Which exact
currencies it accepts, can be found in [pkg/stellar/asset.go](pkg/stellar/asset.go).
In order to support a new currency in the wallet, it suffices to add the asset here,
and load it in either the mainnet or testnet asset map. The eventual payouts in
the event of a successful reservation are based on a payout distribution, which
is linked to a specific asset, and can be found in [pkg/escrow/payout_distribution.go](pkg/escrow/payout_distribution.go).

## managing encrypted seeds for escrow accounts

The seeds of the escrow accounts are encrypted with a key based on the seed used
to start the explorer. This means that changing this seed will cause decryption
of these seeds, and thus their usage by the explorer, to fail. If for any reason
the seed used to start the explorer changes, the operator will need to clear existing
escrow accounts and their associated seeds. To this end, the explorer can be restarted
with the `-flush-escrows` flag. When this flag is passed, confirmation will be asked
on the command line if a user really wants to remove this data from the db. If the
operator changes his/her mind, the explorer will exit, and needs to be restarted
without this flag.

### disposing of encrypted seeds

It is possible, that the addresses used by an escrow are currently active, i.e.
a user has created a reservation and is in the process of paying for it. Although
it is technically possible to swap the addresses in the escrow, the user will still
try to pay to the old address, so this case can't really be handled. In order to not
lose funds however, it is encouraged to back up the accounts before they are removed.
If the explorer is started with the multisig feature enabled by providing sufficient
backup signers, the funds (if any) on the escrow address can still be recovered, and
returned to their rightfull owners, by creating multisigs with the backup signers
for the addresses. Note that the public addresses are not encrypted, as such, even
if the seed used to start the explorer is lost completely, the escrow funds can still
be recovered
